> Disclaimer: Angular 2 is not yet production ready. The API will change. For now, consider this tutorial for educational purposes.

Let's start building our Meteor Angular 2 Socially app.

In this step, you will:

  1. Become familiar with the most important source code files
  2. Learn how to start the Meteor server
  3. Connect an Angular 2 FrontEnd
  4. Run the application in the browser

First step - let's install Meteor!

Open your command line and paste this command:

    $ curl https://install.meteor.com/ | sh

> If you are on a Windows machine, go [here](https://www.meteor.com/install) to install

Now let's create our app - write this in the command line:

    $ meteor create socially

Now let's see what we got. Go into the folder:

    $ cd socially

and run the app like so:

    $ meteor

    => Started proxy
    => Started MongoDB.
    => Started your app.
    >=> App running at: http://localhost:3000/

Now go to [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/)
and look at the amazing app that's running on your computer!

So, as you can see, we have a full running app which includes a server and a client!

The default Meteor app starts life with three files, one `js`, one `html` and one `css` file. Each named with the application name you used in the `create` command above. In our case this is `socially`.

We are going to add our own files for this tutorial. So let's start by deleting the following files:

  socially.css	  socially.html    socially.js

Now we can start building our app.
First, let's create a new `index.html` file and place this code inside. Then run the app again:

__`index.html`:__

    <body>
        <p>Nothing here</p>
    </body>

As you can see, there is no html tag, no head tag, very simple.

The reason for this is the way Meteor structures and serves files to the client.

Meteor scans all the HTML files in your application and concatenates them together.

It will create the `HTML`, `HEAD` and `BODY` tags by itself and place in there everything it needs to run the app.

Then it will search for all the HTML files containing `HEAD` or `BODY` tags and concatenate their content into the main file.


So in our case, Meteor found our `index.html` file, found the `BODY` tag inside and added it's content to the `BODY` tag of the main generated file.

> (right-click -> inspect element on the page to see the generated file)


Now it's time to add Angular 2 to our stack!

Now first things first, let's add the Angular 2 package to Meteor (we will discuss more about Meteor packages later in this tutorial)

Back in the command line, launch this command:

    $ meteor add shmck:angular2

This package takes care of connecting Angular to Meteor and includes the latest Angular 2 library code into our app.


In this tutorial, we'll be using TypeScript. If you don't know TypeScript, don't worry. Valid JavaScript is valid TypeScript. TypeScript just adds more optional features to JavaScript such as types & interfaces.

Why TypeScript? It's true, Angular 2 can be written in regular JavaScript (ES5), the new JavaScript (ES2015) or TypeScript. However, TypeScript is the recommended choice by the Angular team. As we progress, I hope you'll come to understand why.

Install a TypeScript compiler with Angular 2 features enabled. In the command line:

    $ meteor add netanelgilad:angular2-typescript

This compiler will convert our `.ts` files to ES5 valid `.js` files.

ES2015 & TypeScript both use ES6 modules. These are the `import` and `export` statements that have arrived in JavaScript. To load modules, we'll use System.js.

__`index.ng.html`:__

    <body>
      <script>System.import('app')</script>
    </body>

Here we're telling System.js to load `app.js`, which is created from our `app.ts` file.

That's it! Now we can use the Angular 2 power in our Meteor app.

To start simple, create a new file called `index.ng.html` under the main folder, this will be our main `HTML` template page.

* We are using the `.ng.html` file extension so that Blaze - Meteor's templating system won't compile and override our Angular 2 expressions.

Then move the `p` tag into it:

__`index.ng.html`:__

    <p>Nothing here</p>

We'll create a root component tag called `app`, which will load `index.ng.html` in the view. Now let's include that component into our main `index.html` file:

__`index.html`:__

    <body>
      <app></app>
      <script>System.import('app')</script>
    </body>

But if you load this in your browser, **you won't see anything**. That's because we still need to **create the actual Angular 2 component**, which we'll do next.

# Angular 2 Component

Angular 2 code is structured like a tree of components inside of each other. So let's create our root component which other components will stem out of.

Create a new `app.ts` file.

Now you can see another example of Meteor's power and simplicity - no need to include this file anywhere. Meteor will take care of it by going through all the files in the folder and including them automatically.

One of Meteor's goals is to break down the barrier between client and server, so the code you write can run everywhere! (more on that later).
But we need Angular's power only in the client side, so how can we do that?

There are a few ways to tell Meteor to run code only on the client/server/phone side, let's start with the simplest way - [Meteor.isClient](http://docs.meteor.com/#/full/meteor_isserver) variable.

__`app.ts`:__

    if (Meteor.isClient) {
       
    }

Now everything inside this `if` statement will only run on the client side.

Let's continue defining our Angular 2 application module.

__`app.ts`:__

    if (Meteor.isClient) {
      import {Component, View, bootstrap} from 'angular2/angular2';

      @Component({
        selector: 'app'
      })
      @View({
        templateUrl: "index.ng.html"
      })
      class Socially {}

      bootstrap(Socially);
    }

First we're importing the dependencies we need from `angular2/angular2`. This is not a folder and file in your directory, but referring to an alias provided to System.js.

Notice the `@` syntax. In Angular 2, these are called Annotations. They are similar to a new feature coming to ES2016 called Decorators. You can read more about the differences between the two [here](http://blog.thoughtram.io/angular/2015/05/03/the-difference-between-annotations-and-decorators.html).

Basically Annotations allow us to elegantly add metadata to classes. Just consider it pretty syntax for now.

Notice the Component Selector matches the `<app>` tag we provided in index.html, and View templateUrl points to the view file.

The class, Socially, inherits from @Component and @View.

Finally, we `bootstrap` our component, marking it as the root component in `index.html`. An Angular 2 app can have multiple root components, but components must exist together within the same root in order to communicate with each other.

Now run the app.

    $ meteor

Everything is the same, so now inside our `index.ng.html` let's use Angular:

    <p>Nothing here {{dstache}} 'yet' + '!' }}</p>

Run the app again and the screen should look like this:

    Nothing here yet!

Angular interpreted the expression like any other Angular application.

# Experiments
Try adding a new expression to the index.ng.html that will do some math:

    <p>1 + 2 = {{dstache}} 1 + 2 }}</p>

# Summary
Now let's go to [step 1](/tutorial/step_01) and add some content to our application.